well out either internet people it's Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
Republic's and democracies mmm why
because under that video about exporting
democracy on YouTube there were a whole
bunch of comments about it and because
there were a whole bunch of comments
about it I got a whole bunch of messages
about it some people wanted to know what
the difference was and some people were
wondering why people were drawing that
distinction okay to say that the United
States is not a democracy it's a
republic that's false that isn't true
the United States is a democracy that
happens to be a republic most people who
say this know this already what they're
really saying is that we're not a direct
democracy we are a republic which is a
representative democracy now to a lot of
people that's like me saying hey you got
a car I need a ride now I have a car I
have a Jeep so why do people like to
draw the distinction when it's a
republic it gives the image that it
defeats the two strongest arguments
against democracy the weaker of the two
arguments against democracy is that it
is mob rule you know two wolves and a
sheep deciding what to have for dinner
the strongest argument against democracy
is scrolling the average voters Facebook
feed when people say this you will often
see it in the in the verbage of we have
a constitutional republic therefore it's
not mob rule that lamb is safe our
rights are protected that little lamb is
going to be okay
is it though I mean really is it it's
convenient fiction and it leads to a
dangerous idea that rights are granted
by the government they're not the guys
who wrote all this stuff said the rights
were endowed by the creator or if you're
an atheist they are self-evident they
existed beforehand before the Bill of
Rights and if you want an interesting
read that's kind of off topic go take a
look at the ninth amendment and just
give that a plain reading so the reason
the Bill of Rights exists is that it
specifically protected certain things
that governments of the time we're known
for attacking that's why it's there
because of that people seem to think
that those rights are always going to be
there and therefore we're protected no
the second you start believing that
government granted those rights it is
mobile it is mob rule you just need a
bigger mob amendments can be repealed
amendments can be repealed and because I
said that those that really like to draw
that distinction are going to say well
it's it's you need a bigger mob
therefore it is better than a direct
democracy there's nothing saying that a
direct democracy can't require 80% of
people vote in favor of something prior
to it becoming law and you need a bigger
mob do you know in most cases sure with
amendments but in most cases do you you
don't there's a hundred fifty three or
so million voters in the United States
do you think you could gather 80 million
voters that would tell you that Congress
deserves the pay it gets the benefits it
gets and should be able to take money
from special interest groups
probably not
but it's law because the mob is actually
smaller it is smaller now that's the
first argument the first argument it's
not really true
it is Marvel democracies were all kind
or the idea is that democracy is
advanced citizenship to throw that term
out there again you have to be educated
you have to be informed and that's the
second argument inherent any idea of a
republic is that us common folk are
stupid we're too dumb to make our own
decisions therefore we need a
representative somebody who'll say won't
want and unless what you think you want
but let me weigh that out for you and we
need to defer to our betters you know
people in the comment section asked a
lot about me running for office no I'm
good I'm good I don't know how to run
your life better than you got no clue
wouldn't even know where to start I'd
also like to keep what's left of my soul
intact I don't think that's gonna happen
in DC so I would just rather abstain
from the whole process like that anyway
that's a look at that discussion
republic versus democracy a republic is
a form of democracy it is a
representative democracy there's a lot
of bashing direct democracy and I'm not
so sure it's it's well deserved at the
end of the day though democracy of any
kind is going to be in danger as long as
voters have the Facebook feeds they do
it's up to us if you want democracy to
work you have to work at it anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
night